Our theme for this month is, you are especially acceptable to Jehovah.
We love Jehovah and we want to give him our best, but we want our sacrifices to be acceptable
to him, so we may strive to be involved as much as possible in all the exciting things going
on in the organization.
But do you ever feel discouraged?
Perhaps even guilty or frustrated regarding your sacrifices to Jehovah?
In some cases it may be that you are so involved in so many different aspects of the work
that perhaps you are not giving adequate attention to your spiritual, personal or family needs.
Or on the other hand, it may be the opposite situation.
You may have those feelings because you cannot do as much as you'd like to, or as much
as others are doing.
For example, you may have been very involved in the work, but unexpectedly your circumstances
changed because of your health or some other calamity that came along and shut things
down.
Such feelings may cause us to ask ourselves, what does Jehovah really expect of us?
Well, we're going to consider three points in our discussion.
The first is, we need to set the right priorities.
Second, do not compare yourselves unfavorably with others.
And third, remember what's important to Jehovah.
Let's start with our first point.
Jehovah expects us to set the right priorities.
But how can we do that?
Well, a scripture that's helped me is found in 2 Corinthians, chapter 8 and verse 12.
At the time of this letter, the Christians and Judea were facing many trials, and these
trials included famine, persecution, and the plundering of their belongings.
They needed relief.
A previously in his first letter, Paul had encouraged the Corinthians to set aside funds
to help the brothers in Judea.
Shortly thereafter, when Paul wrote the second inspired letter to the Corinthians, he urged
them to get their gifts ready.
So now with this context of giving, sacrificing, helping others in mind, let's read 2 Corinthians
chapter 8 and verse 12.
For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable, according to what a
person has, not according to what a person does not have.
Paul here is discussing sacrifices that are acceptable, and sacrifices that are unacceptable
to Jehovah.
What's the difference?
Well, picture it this way, picture a young family in Corinth, a father, mother, and children.
The father here is the letter from Paul being read to the congregation, and the father's
very excited.
He wants to help his brothers in Judea.
Now, when the family gets home, he discusses the matter with his wife.
He says, we have a little money that we've set aside to do some work on the house, and
we were saving to purchase another donkey.
However, I'd like to take that money and contribute it for our needy brothers in Jerusalem.
What do you think?
Would you say that is an acceptable sacrifice?
Yes, it's a sacrifice.
He and his family are donating money to help others, but it's according to what the
family has.
That sacrifice would no doubt be very precious to Jehovah.
You can picture how excited the family would be to support that decision.
But now let's imagine a different family in the same congregation.
This time, the husband comes home and says, I know we do not have any extra money, but
I'd like to use the money that we've set aside to feed our family for the next two weeks
and donate it for the brothers that are in need in Jerusalem.
What do you think now?
Would you say that is an acceptable sacrifice?
It's the same good motive, the same good cause.
It may even be the same amount of money, but is it acceptable?
No, why?
It's not according to what he has.
Jehovah does not want him to take food away from his children.
Can you imagine him explaining that decision to his family?
If father has a God-given responsibility to feed his family, Paul says, just give according
to what you have.
What's the lesson for us?
How can this help us to maintain balance and set the right priorities?
Well, our sacrifices are acceptable to Jehovah if we give according to what we have, but
our sacrifice would be unacceptable if we try to give beyond what we have.
How can we apply that?
Well, there are certain areas that Jehovah says are non-negotiable.
What are some of those areas?
One is our relationship with Jehovah.
He expects us to keep that relationship strong by making time for such important activities
as lingering in prayer, reading and meditating on God's word, attending and participating
in our meetings and having a meaningful share in the ministry.
So what we do in the way of work for the organization must never crowd out the spiritual activities
that keep us close to God.
You see, that would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
Another example is our family responsibilities.
Jehovah expects us to care for our family, not only materially and physically, but also
spiritually and emotionally.
So we must spend time together in family worship in the field ministry and in recreation.
That means that we must not allow our work for the organization to interfere with the necessary
time we need to care for our family.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
Another example is our health.
Jehovah expects us to serve him whole soul.
That involves doing all our health allows us to do.
So we do all that we can to maintain our health by eating well, getting enough sleep, exercising
regularly.
Well, again, we must not allow our work for the organization to cause us to neglect
our health.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
So do you see the point what can help us to set the right priorities?
Well, again, remember the principle here in 2nd Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 12.
Jehovah in effect says, give to me according to what you have, not according to what you
do not have, and that will be especially acceptable to me.
And we know that even though we have set the right priorities, it's still a challenge
to maintain balance.
A balance is not something that once you have it, you can just lock it in.
No, it's like a tight rope walker who constantly must recalibrate and adjust to maintain balance.
The same is true with maintaining balance in our lives.
I know it's a constant process for me, and I'd guess it's just as challenging for you
as well.
We've had excellent articles in our publications that help with managing our time.
Here are two of them.
The April 2010 awake, page 7, has an article entitled 20 Ways to Create More Time.
And the February 2014 awake, page 6, how to invest your time wisely.
You may find these helpful to further research on how to set the right priorities and maintain
balance.
A second point to help us maintain balance is, do not compare yourselves unfavorably
with others.
There will always be ones doing more in their service to Jehovah than we are.
And if we start comparing ourselves to them, or feel that they are more acceptable to Jehovah,
this could cause us to lose not just our balance, but our joy as well.
And considering this aspect of not comparing, I think of the prophets Daniel Ezekiel and
Jeremiah.
As you remember, these men wore contemporaries of one another, but each had very different
circumstances.
At Daniel was in the Court of the King in Babylon.
Yes, he had times of persecution and challenges, but overall, he was an official for the King.
He received special training for his position, so he may have had it relatively easy.
Ezekiel was living among his fellow exiles in a community by the River Keybar.
Overall, things were fairly stable there.
Remember the Jews in exile had a measure of freedom.
They built houses, they had children, they settled down, developed skills in various
trades.
So it seems, perhaps they had a relatively stable life.
Then you have Jeremiah.
He was in Jerusalem.
It seems somebody was always trying to kill him.
Much of the time he was either hiding or in confinement.
So here's the question.
Did the differing circumstances of their assignments mean that Jehovah loved or favored one more
than the other?
Not at all.
It was just an assignment.
Jehovah wanted a prophet in Jerusalem.
He wanted one with the exiles in Babylon and he wanted another in the Court of the King.
It was just the way the assignments fell.
Now you can imagine how a counterproductive it would have been for each of these three
men to judge his value based on his assignment or to compare himself to the other two.
That could happen.
Think about it.
Ezekiel and Jeremiah could have looked at Daniel and thought, oh, he has direct access
to the King.
He's living where all the big decisions are being made.
He's right in the center of it all.
He can use his influence to help Jehovah's people.
What a privilege that would be.
I wish I was there.
For Daniel and Jeremiah could have looked at Ezekiel and felt that's where they wished
they were.
We would have at least relative freedom with the exiles.
We'd be able to encourage our fellow worshipers of Jehovah.
We could help others learn about Jehovah.
Or believe it or not, Daniel and Ezekiel could have looked at Jeremiah and thought, we
know things are tough, but that's where we want to be.
He's on the front lines, risking his life for Jehovah and the nation.
That's where the action is.
Different assignments, different circumstances, different locations.
But they were all special to Jehovah.
What's the lesson?
The lesson is that we must be careful that we do not compare ourselves unfavorably with
others.
It is good to see if we can imitate and benefit from the example of others, but we need
to be careful that we do not begin determining the value of what we're doing for Jehovah
based on what others are doing.
That could cause us to lose our joy, lose our balance, and fall into the trap of doing
things for the wrong reasons.
That brings us to our last point.
Remember what is important to Jehovah.
Circumstances change in life.
As mentioned in the past, we may have been extremely busy in Jehovah's service, but because
of the world's situation, that may have changed.
Or other circumstances in our life may have changed.
Does that somehow change how Jehovah feels about us?
No.
How do we know?
What is important to Jehovah?
What makes you especially acceptable to Jehovah?
Well, let's read together Acts chapter 10 verses 34 and 35.
At this, Peter began to speak, and he said,
Now I truly understand that God is not partial, but in every nation the man who fears him
and does what is right is acceptable to him.
Do it is right, obey his commandments.
That's it.
That's what makes us acceptable to Jehovah.
We complicate things at times, and equate our responsibilities, how we're used, where
we're asked to serve, as things that define our value.
That's not how Jehovah sees things.
A scripture that has helped me is found in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 10.
I have seen the occupation that God has given to the sons of men to keep them occupied.
The occupation refers to our activities, the things we do.
And Jehovah has given us work to keep us occupied whenever I read that I think of parents
with their children, perhaps they take them to the beach for the afternoon, and what
do they do?
They give them some toys, and they let them play.
Why?
To keep them occupied.
And that in a way is what Jehovah does with us.
You think about it, Jehovah does not need us to do the work.
Jehovah can accomplish his work without us, but he dignifies us and allows us to have
a share.
He provides us with meaningful work.
Note what it goes on to say in verse 13 of Ecclesiastes chapter 3.
Also that everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
Work is a gift from Jehovah.
Is it reasonable to think that Jehovah would give a gift that stresses us out or creates
hardship for us?
No.
He wants us to find enjoyment in our work.
We are the ones that make it to concern with assigning rank and priority to various privileges
and locations of service, where we are in the sand, and what toys we have to play with.
What is important to Jehovah?
Notice our final scripture in Ecclesiastes chapter 12 and verse 13.
The conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is fear the true God and keep
his commandments for this is the whole obligation of man.
Fear Jehovah.
Keep his commandments.
Just serve Jehovah.
Do the best that you can.
Stay balanced.
Give according to what you have.
Those are the important things.
And if you do them, no matter what your personal circumstances, you will remain especially
acceptable to Jehovah.